---
layout: project
permalink: /products/danger
category: products 
type: "" 
img: danger
title: Danger Shield 2.0
technologies: [] 
when: 8/2014
collaborators: []
task: 
desc:
images: [1.jpg, 1.jpg, 1.jpg]
sourcecode: [[Alpha, "https://github.com/ploverelectric/danger"]]

---

The Danger Shield 2.0 is a new remix of an old design. It started with Zach Hoeken's original [Danger Shield v1.0](http://www.zachhoeken.com/danger-shield-v1-0) back in 2008, which was an awesome Arduino shield for exploring various human interactions. SparkFun released a [modified version](https://github.com/sparkfun/DangerShield) in 2012. Danger Shield 2.0 has the same great interactions as the original (sliders, LEDs, buttons, etc.) but instead of a plain-jane Arduino shield, our version has headers for a [Spark Core](https://spark.io), a tiny, Arduino compatible, Wifi-enabled microcontroller that makes it easy to connect your Danger Shield 2.0 to the Internet.

What is it for? Whatever you want to do with it!

<!--break-->

##### Features

* Three slide potentiometers with large buttons underneath
* One 7-segment LED display with 8-bit shift register
* One TMP36 temperature sensor
* One miniature photocell for light detection
* Three LEDs (Red/Yellow/Green)
* One piezo buzzer
* Extra headers for expanding your shift register and attaching additional components
* One Capacitive touch sensor, on the lower right corner
* Spark Core makes it easy to write Arduino-compatible software that connects your Danger Shield to the Internet

##### Totally Hackable

* Open-source hardware, firmware, and software make the Danger Shield 2.0 easy to use and easy to modify
* The Spark Core (also open source) makes it easy to control things over the Internet, right from your Danger Shield
* Extra pins are broken out to a header on the side - easily add your own buttons, sensors, LEDs, or even communicate with other circuits

---

##### Available Configurations

The Danger Shield 2.0 comes as a kit, ready to assemble and start affecting awesomeness. You will need a soldering iron, but this project is totally doable for a first-timer. Basic Arduino experience is recommended but not to worry, we have have some cool pre-made programs you can use. Warning: this board it totally awesome. Prepare to rock.

---

##### Options:

###### Spark Core

Alpha has pads on the back for you to drop in a [Spark Core](https://spark.io). The Core is an Arduino-compatible microcontroller with a built-in WiFi module, that connects to a free service hosted by Spark Devices. This lets you set up the Core with your smart phone or computer, program it using their slick web IDE, and makes it easy to write software that interacts with your Core and Alpha from anywhere on the Internet. Of course, the Spark Core is open-source and you don't need to use Spark's services to get your Core on-line.

###### ChronoDot

Alpha also has built-in pads for the [ChronoDot](http://macetech.com/store/index.php?main_page=product_info&products_id=8), a high-accuracy RTC (Real Time Clock) board with built-in backup battery. If you'd like to use Alpha as clock, the ChronoDot will make it easier to keep the time and date accurate.

---

##### Daisy Chaining

Daisy chaining is super easy with Alpha, just connect two Alphas together with a 10-pin jumper cable and you're off to the races. More detailed instructions for daisy chaining are coming soon.

##### Power Supply

Alpha can be powered over USB or by an external power supply (sold separately). Plug your Alpha into your computer and use it on your desk, or plug it into any USB charger and place it anywhere you want. If you need more Alpha, you can add another unit with a daisy-chain cable. Note: some USB chargers may not be able to handle multiple Alphas - you may need to use the external power supply.

##### Open Source

All the hardware, firmware, and software for Alpha are released under open source licenses. The on-board microcontroller is running the Catarina USB bootloader (same as the Arduino Leonardo) and can be reprogrammed through the free Arduino IDE by plugging Alpha into your USB port. You can even grab our design files for EAGLE and design your own version of Alpha (please let us know if you do, we'd love to see!)

---

##### Quality

All of our boards are lovingly designed, built, and tested right here in Brooklyn, New York. Our products are all lead free and RoHS compliant. 

##### Acknowledgments

Alpha was inspired heavily by Evil Mad Scientist's [Alpha Clock Five](http://shop.evilmadscientist.com/productsmenu/tinykitlist/589), released under the [TAPR OHL](http://www.tapr.org/OHL). -->