---
layout: project
permalink: /products/alpha
category: products 
type: "" 
img: alpha
title: Alpha Display
technologies: [] 
when: 8/2014
collaborators: []
task: 
desc:
images: [1.jpg, 1.jpg, 1.jpg]
sourcecode: [[Alpha, "https://github.com/ploverelectric/alpha"]]

---

Alpha is an Arduino-compatible display that includes five ultra-bright 18-segment alphanumeric displays. It's powered by USB or external supply, and can be daisy-chained. It's also internet-enabled with the inclusion of a Wifi-enabled Spark Core.

<!--break-->

I was inspired to build the Alpha by [Windell Oskay's](http://shop.evilmadscientist.com/productsmenu/tinykitlist/589) Alpha Clock Five. I loved the giant, bright LED displays, so I purchased some when I lived in China and started experimenting. The Alpha is the result of those experiments. I found that my Alpha prototypes were always sitting at my desk, powered by USB, and that I liked being able to use them for notifications or other data. I added a microcontroller with native USB (based on the Atmega32u4/Arduino Leonardo), a boost converter to run the white LEDs off of USB power, as well as the option to use a Spark Core for a wireless display.

##### Features:

* Arduino-compatible microcontroller comes pre-programed and ready to accept instructions over USB
* Compatible with the [Spark Core](https://spark.io), which lets you control your Alpha over the Internet
* Beautiful acrylic panel included, easily removable for that "raw LED" look
* Huge 2.3" (5.8 cm) LED digits, easy to see on your desk or across the room
* Full PWM brightness range makes Alpha easily at home in your bedroom or office

##### Hacker-friendly:

* Open-source hardware, firmware, and software make Alpha easy to use and easy to modify
* The included Atmega32u4 is easy to reprogram over USB using the standard Arduino IDE (it appears as an Arduino Leonardo)
* Easy to add a [Spark Core](https://spark.io) if you'd rather control your Alpha over the Internet
* Unused pins are broken out to a fully-labeled accessory header - add your own sensors, interface with other microcontroller, the sky's the limit!

---

##### Available Configurations:

Alpha comes in two configurations - Kit or Completely Built. The kit includes the PCB, LED displays, power supply, and acrylic panel. All you need to do is solder in the LEDs, screw in the panel, and you're good to go. If you don't fancy a few minutes with a hot iron, you can also order Alpha as Completely Built - the LEDs are soldered for you, the panel is screwed on, and the Alpha is tested to boot. This option is truly plug-and-play.

##### Options:

###### Spark Core

Alpha has pads on the back for you to drop in a [Spark Core](https://spark.io). The Core is an Arduino-compatible microcontroller with a built-in WiFi module, that connects to a free service hosted by Spark Devices. This lets you set up the Core with your smart phone or computer, program it using their slick web IDE, and makes it easy to write software that interacts with your Core and Alpha from anywhere on the Internet. Of course, the Spark Core is open-source and you don't need to use Spark's services to get your Core online.

###### ChronoDot

Alpha also has built-in pads for the [ChronoDot](http://macetech.com/store/index.php?main_page=product_info&products_id=8), a high-accuracy RTC (Real Time Clock) board with built-in backup battery. If you'd like to use Alpha as clock, the ChronoDot will make it easier to keep the time and date accurate.

---

##### Daisy Chaining

##### Power Supply:

Alpha can be powered over USB or by an external power supply (sold separately). Plug your Alpha into your computer and use it on your desk, or plug it into any USB charger and place it anywhere you want. If you need more Alpha, you can add another unit with a daisy-chain cable. Note: some USB chargers may not be able to handle multiple Alphas - you may need to use the external power supply.

